# Humanitarian-OpenStreetMap-Team
# TASK : Improve communication strategies of open mapping initiatives for humanitarian purposes

HOT is an international team dedicated to humanitarian action and community development through open mapping. Open source is at the heart of the HOT Community. We create and build open source tools and run our projects with an open source ethos.

As an NGO and a global volunteer community, HOT creates and provides digital and print maps, and builds technology to address the world's toughest challenges through the use and growth of OpenStreetMap. In times of crisis and natural disaster, HOT rallies a network of volunteers worldwide to rapidly produce maps relied upon by humanitarian relief organizations to reach those in need.

The Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team (HOT)  has four regional Open Mapping Hubs:  Asia Pacific, Eastern and Southern Africa, Western and Northern Africa and Latin America. We work together to provide map data which revolutionises disaster management, reduces risks, and contributes to achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. We support, motivate and enable people to contribute to OpenStreetMap (OSM); an open-source, free, and digital public good. We ensure map data is accessible and used in decisions that save and improve lives in countries at high risk of disaster, humanitarian crises, or experiencing multidimensional poverty, while making sure communities are visible on the map in the way they choose and included in decisions that affect their lives.All of this work is done through OpenStreetMap. OpenStreetMap is the community-driven free and editable map of the world, supported by the not-for-profit OpenStreetMap Foundation. Read more on the OSM Wiki or join the discussion with your local OSM community.

HOT believes strongly in the transformative potential of free and open source software to enable a global effort to tackle these challenges. HOT_tech team in collaboration with the tech collective develops and improve free and open source software for humanitarian purpose- take a look at our Github. We strongly encourage applicants from the regions and countries we focus on - see Open Mapping Hubs.  HOT also runs monthly HOT Tech and Innovation working group meetings: Humanitarian OSM Team/Working groups/TechandInnovation - OpenStreetMap Wiki
